From:	SWAMP::HUTTON       "This is commerce, not your hobby." 19-MAR-1997 03:05:24.89
To:	SMTP%"all_staff@promis.com"
CC:	HUTTON
Subj:	What I did on my Spring Break in Japan

I thought that my trip to Fujitsu/AMD in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan would be
of enough general interest (both due to the location and the large
scale of the client) to warrant sending out this blurb on a typical
day in the life of a PROMIS, on-site consultant.

The day starts at 0810 hrs with the company anthem, daily exhortation
from the office section boss and so forth.  The office is about the
size of a football field and has no dividers: just desks and other
office equipment laid out in the traditional "circuit board" Japanese
office layout.  The bosses are by the window facing into the room and
perpendicular to them are banks of desks and various computer printers.
The secretary for each section is at the end nearest the boss.

As the day progresses, the PA system chimes (the same tune that big
clock towers use before tolling out the hour) to announce the various
cycles of the day.  Our section's nutrition cycle is at 1228 hrs when
another section finishes with the cafeteria.  It lasts for about
half an hour.  The cafeteria also has a travel agency, camera shop,
banking machines, battery vending machines and so on.

The day goes until at least 1900 hrs; which works out to an average
10 1/2 hour day.  I have, however, been here until 2100 hrs for a 
12 1/2 hour day.  Some of the Japanese are typically here longer;
the stuff about karuchi "Death by overwork" is no joke!  Takahashi-san,
of DEC-Japan was returning here from Tokyo on Sunday night when his
bullet-train automatically switched off during an earthquake.  By the
time the quake was over and they'd reset the train he'd missed the last
connecting train: Wakamatsu is a milk-run from the main Tokyo <->
Sendai line.  So he slept somewhere, I think in the train station,
until the first train in the morning so that he could pick me up
at 0720 hrs in my hotel lobby.

PROMIS, as we sell it to our customers, is just a small part of the
overall information structure that FASL (Fujitsu/AMD Semi-Conductor
Limited) needs to operate.  There is code originally written by
Tokyo Electron that is now maintained by DEC-Japan.  There is code
originally written by DEC-Japan and also custom code written by FASL
personnel.  All of this dangles off of and depends on standard PROMIS
in some way.  In addition to this complexity, there is a host of
slightly incompatible Kanji display systems, English display systems
and huge networks.  To complete the fun, FASL is remodelling and
upgrading their computer centre to handle a new Fab: we all know what
joy that is from our recent move to our new office!

So, not surprisingly, most of my time is spent sorting through the
bug lists to try and see which of them are actually PROMIS problems.
It's not that anyone is trying to pin their problems on us but rather
that it's really hard to tell where these difficulties start from and
if there isn't an on-site technician intimately familiar with PROMIS
then problems of unknown province tend to thought of as coming from
the most unknown system around: i.e. we get the blame.

A pair of typical examples will show you what I mean.  When Quick Chart
displays are set to Kanji, the title falls off the bottom.  The
Quick Chart subsystem here has code from all four sources so who
should look into it?  I did for a short time but stopped when someone
else figured out that it was a hardware problem.  Another good one is
that the TP server is sending out mail messages in English to Japanese
operators.  TP problem?  NLS problem?  DEC-Japan Kanji customization
problem?  Middleware problem?  It turned out that someone had set
the TP PROMIS account to English because DEC-Kanji mail messages
make the HP-Kanji mail delivery systems fall over.  Off of my target
range it goes into someone else's job jar.

And then sometimes, just because I'm a captive PROMIS guru, I get
dragged into operational problems on the 5.2.4 system here.  This is
huge and any tiny logic warp in PROMIS causes big problems.  One 
limitation in our material constraint logic is causing them to have
to consider ZORCHing 400 lots next week.  There's also another problem
where PROMIS traces back when they try to release a tracking hold on
a lot.  Lots were piling up to the operator's nose and I really
couldn't leave, even though it was 1930 hrs, without losing "face"
as they say here.  This was, by the way, how I ended up here till 2100
hrs.  It all turned out well though.  Takahasi-san and I looked at
it for an hour or so and then I announced that the tracebacks would
stop if they added lot comments (annotations to the PROMIS logs for
each lot) that said "Please stop tracing back, Hutton-san wishes to
return to his hotel."  This did the trick; once again proving the
value of an on-site consultant!  (Techie details to tracking wizards
later.)

I, of course, can't and shouldn't do everything for them but neither
can I afford to take a narrow, legalistic view of what is and isn't
our responsibility.  Remember that what we're selling to our customers
isn't a product but rather solutions.  No one cares about product
sellers these days.  So, my task isn't really to make PROMIS v5.3.1
"work" according to some spec sheet.  Rather it's to do everything in
my areas of expertise to solve the problem of getting FASL's
information systems working to their satisfaction through their
entire range of upgrades.  It's just that many of my areas of 
expertise happen to relate to PROMIS and that PROMIS is one of the
upgrades.

Cultural note:  Japan has very advanced toilet technology.  Some of
them have a sink built into the top which drain into the tank.  Thus
the tank can refill without affecting your water pressure as you wash
your hands.  There are also water conserving models which have "big"
and "little" flushes.  If you have simply urinated then you turn the
handle to the right for a quick slurp: otherwise you turn it to the
left for a full splash.

There are also Asian style "squat" toilets and Western style "sit-down"
toilets.  These latter often have electrically heated seats.  It is
a favourite trick here at FASL to turn the control on the seat up to
"extra-crispy" just before leaving the stall.  I fell prey to this
prank on my first day here and started to think that I had made a very
bad choice at lunch!

In Tokyo, there are quite clean public washrooms absolutely everywhere.
This is a big improvement on Toronto where there are almost none. But
remember to bring your own hand towels as most of them have no towels
or hand-dryers.  If you are male, also remember that the cleaning
ladies are quite likely to stroll in and start cleaning up around
your feet as you go about your business.  Just act non-chalant and
return her cheery "good afternoon" greetings.  This isn't considered
at all rude here.  In fact, although all washrooms here have separate
male and female entrances, the doors don't necessarily go to different
rooms.

A reverse example, something that is rude here but not in Canada, is
walking around while eating.  You just *don't* do that here.  Well,
except for ice-cream but even then the restriction is only lifted
outdoors.

				/Don-san
